light output can obtained at relatively low 
bias and small modulation depth.  Note that 
without modulation and delay, the system 
always converges to a fixed point.  With delay 
only or small modulation depth only, it is not 
possible to achieve chaos. The interaction 
between modulation and delay forms a quasi-2 
period route to chaos.  These chaotic 
behaviors are further investigated by 
bifurcation diagram, Poincar\'e map, and 
Lyapunov exponent.   
 
Carrier synchronization (lock-in) between two 
chaotic systems is the key to establishing 
chaotic communication channels.  The property 
of chaotic system is that closely correlated 
initial conditions have trajectories which 
quickly become uncorrelated.  This property 
would seem to defy synchronization. However, 
Pecora and Carroll [9-10] have shown that two 
chaotic systems can be synchronized provided 
that the systems meet the following criteria. 
First, the first chaotic (drive) system 
transmits some of its state variable to the 
second (response) system.  This forces the 
state variables of the response system to 
synchronize with the other state variables not 
passed to the response system. Second, a 
necessary and sufficient condition for the 
synchronization is that all the conditional 
Lyapunov exponents (CLE) associated with the 
variational equation be negative.  The 
ability to design synchronizing systems has 
opened opportunities for applications of chaos 
to private communications [11]. 
 
In this work, a drive-response model according 
to Pecora and Carroll's theory is taken [1-2].  
Three issues have to be addressed in order to 
apply Pecora and Carroll's theory: (1) masking 
the electronic signal with optical chaotic 
light, (2) transmitting, receiving, and 
coupling at least one state variable between 
the drive and response systems, and (3) 
obtaining all the negative CLE for the drive 
and response systems at one particular drive 
electronic signal.  It has been known that by 
injecting a sinusoidal electronic signal to a 
delay-feedback quantum well laser diodes, the 
chaotic light can be generated in certain 
conditions.  In this way, delay-feedback 
quantum well laser diodes can be used as 
chaotic masking devices.  In addition, a 
reasonable (probably the only one) choice for 
this state variable be transmitted between the 
drive and response systems is photon density.  
Note that if all the state variables are passed 
to the response system, the total system 
becomes trivial. Photon density could then be 
received, processed, and coupled into the 
response system in the form of current 
injection.  Finally, to meet the condition (3), 
CLE are calculated at this particular 
electronic drive. 
 
 
三、研究報告應含的內容 
   
 
Considering a drive-response system 
using self-pulsating laser diodes, a drive 
system, described by a three-dimensional rate 
equation, is given by [5] 
 
 
and the appropriate response system 
$(\hat{})$ is given by 
 
 
 
where $S$ is the photon density, $N_{1}$ is the 
electron density in the active region, $N_{2}$ 
is the electron density in the saturable 
absorption region, $I$ is the subcarrier 
current, and $\delta (\hat{S}-S)$ is the 
coupling term.  Note that $I$ is normalized 
using a factor of $eV_{1}$, where $V_{1}$ is 
the active layer volume. The nonlinear 
functions $F_{1}$, $F_{2}$, and $F_{3}$ which 
describe the self-pulsating laser diodes can 
be written as [10] 
  
 
  
where $\tau_{s}$ is the carrier lifetime, 
 2
 4
to be $(10 f_{0})^{-1}$. Note that for 
$\hat{\delta} = 200$, the first Lyapunov 
exponent of the synchronized error function is 
1.3 GHz from Fig.~3.  For a large cutoff 
frequency, contribution of the differential 
term can be ignored ($E_{S}(t) \sim \ X(t)$). 
Thus, the Poincare cross section ($\eta >$ 3 
GHz) shows a continuous dense attractor- a 
typical behavior of a chaotic waveform. For a 
very small cutoff frequency, $E_{S}(t) \sim 
\dot{X}(t)$. The Poincare cross section ($\eta 
< $ 0.2 GHz) shows a broken attractor- an 
integration effect of the dense attractor. 
However, when the cutoff frequency matches the 
first Lyapunov exponent of the synchronized 
error function ($\eta \sim$ 1.3 GHz), as 
suggested in Ref.~[9], an increase in fractal 
dimensional occurs.  Therefore, the dense 
attractors become periodic and the embedded 
signals can be recovered. 
 
The recovery of the multiplexed signals 
can also be verified in the frequency domain.  
$\Delta b \sin{2\pi \Delta 
ft}\sin{2\pif_{i}t}$ gives the sum frequency 
$(f_{i}+\Delta f)$ and the difference 
frequency $(f_{i}-\Delta f)$ at each 
subcarrier. Figure 6 shows the frequency 
spectrum of the output of the LPF $X(t)$ for 
$\eta$ =1.3 GHz, $\hat{\delta} = 200$, $\delta 
= 0$, $N$ = 4, b =9 mA, and a = 30 mA. Two 
distinct signal peaks are found at 
$(f_{i}+\Delta f)$ and $(f_{i}-\Delta f)$ in 
each subcarrier. Thus, the subcarrier 
multiplexing for $N$ = 4 can be established. 
 
To further test the validity of this 
filtering process, a ten subcarrier system 
($f_{i} = 0.1\times i \times f_{0}$, i = 1...10) 
is constructed. Fig.~7 shows the frequency 
spectrum of the synchronization error function 
before applying the filter. Similarly, the 
spectrum has a complex and unpredictable 
pattern and the signal frequency $\Delta f$ is 
well hidden. In this system, the first Lyapunov 
exponent of the synchronized error function is 
0.4 GHz. Therefore, the cutoff frequency of LPF 
is chosen to be 0.4 GHz accordingly. Figure 8 
shows the frequency spectrum of the output of 
the LPF $X(t)$ for  $\eta$ = 0.4 GHz, 
$\hat{\delta} = 200$, $\delta = 0$, $N$ = 10, 
b = 7 mA, and a = 30 mA.  Similarly, two 
distinct signal peaks are found at 
$(f_{i}+\Delta f)$ and $(f_{i}-\Delta f)$ in 
each subcarrier.  Thus, the subcarrier 
multiplexing for $N$ = 10 can also be 
established. When taking into consideration of 
each subcarrier frequency, it is difficult to 
place all the subcarrier in the chaotic regions.  
The chaotic orbit can be destroyed while the 
subcarrier frequency is approaching to the 
natural frequency$f_{0}$ [11].  In this case, 
$N$ = 1..6 exhibit chaotic orbit while $N=$ 
7..10 show periodic window, as shown in Fig 9, 
where $m$ is the frequency modulation index. 
N=1 corresponds to a frequency modulation 
index of 0.1.  Thus, the summing effects of the 
ten subcarrier system shows less "chaos" than 
the four subcarrier system.  It is also 
evident by plotting the local Lyapunov 
exponent (in Fig.~10).  The ten subcarrier 
system has a smaller local Lyapunov exponent 
all the way. 
 
 
四、Conclusions 
 
In conclusion, self-pulsating laser 
diodes can be used as a chaotic multi-tone 
modulation device to change sinusoidal 
electronic signals into optical chaotic light. 
Drive and response systems become 
asymptotically synchronized when AM signals 
are added to each subcarrier in the drive 
system. The AM signals in each subcarrier can 
be recovered by matching the Lyapunov exponent 
of the synchronized error function with the 
cutoff frequency of a first order low pass 
filter. The numerical results indicate four 
and ten subcarrier multiplexing systems can be 
established.  
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] C.~R.~Mirasso, P.~Colet, and 
P.~Garcia-Fernandez, Synchronization of 
chaotic semiconductor lasers: application to 
encoded communications, IEEE 
Photon.~Technol.~Lett., 8 (1996) 299. 
[2] V.~Annovazzi-Lodi, S.~Donati, and 
A.~Scire, Chaos and locking in a semiconductor 
laser due to external injection, IEEE 
J.~Quantum Electron., 33 (1997) 1449. 
[3] I.~Fischer, O.~Hess, W.~Els\"a$\beta$er, 
and G\"obel, High-dimensional chaotic 
dynamics of an external cavity semiconductor 
laser, Phy.~Rev.~Lett., 73 (1994) 2188. 
 
 
Fig4a: fd=50Mhz, Po=0, Fo=87.6Mhz 
b: fd=50Mhz, Po=-20dbm, Fo=87.6Mhz  
c: fd=50Mhz, Po=1.4dbm, Fo=87.6Mhz, 
quais-state 
d: fd=50Mhz, Po=5.9dbm, Fo=87.6Mhz, chaotic 
states. 
 
 
Fig5a fd = 61.7MHz, Po = 10dBm, fo = 79.6MHz, 
period-two,  
b  fd = 61.7MHz, Po = 10dBm, fo = 84.1MHz, 
chaotic state,  
c  fd = 61.7MHz, Po = 10dBm, fo = 123.5MHz, 
period-one, and  
d  fd = 61.7MHz, Po = 10dBm, fo = 162.3MHz, 
chaotic state. 
 
 
 
 6
