these are the advances in technology to bring people 
convenience. 
 
The high refractive index lens of the future will 
play a very important role in the permeability of 
semi-hard high-index lens (rigid gas permeable, RGP) 
materials can produce more light the lens, thereby 
improving the comfort in wear and in the experience 
coupled with good positioning. Used in the design of 
multifocal lenses, the relative degree of increase in 
the degree to join, and gets a wider range of areas 
in the near region. The main objective of this 
research proposed the first Asian vision optical 
model via the optical design software simulation. 
Therefore we consider the model of the human eye in 
the case of astigmatism and myopia, how to select 
appropriate materials to do the high refractive index 
contact lenses designed to correct. And we will 
consider compensated model for the eye toward the 
future other non-ideal focusing conditions. The plan 
focuses on developing new and comfortable contact 
lenses. No matter the high refractive index material 
currently available or future development to find new 
materials. The goal is to optimize optical model of 
human eye of its establishment. The main issue is 
hoped to significantly shorten the time of the next 
contact lens fitting and low damage to long-time use 
results in order to meet consumers to wear 
comfortable and extended manufacturer market. 
 
The contact lenses was designed by optical design 
software of CODE V, we found that the spherical 
aberration, which did not conform the lowest 
performance. In order to achieve the optimal values 
of spherical aberration, we employed the Taguchi 
method to solve an optimization problem. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Contact lenses, optical design, High refeaction-index 
rigid gas permeable, Asians vision science model, 
Taguchi Methods, Spherical Aberration 
 
技術研發成果說明： 
運用最佳化田口法設計，有效消除三階像差產生時對人眼所造成之影響。 
 
技術特點說明： 
可作為客製化隱形眼鏡最佳化設計之參考。 
 
可利用之產業及可開發之產品： 
應用於相關光學設計產業以及隱形眼鏡與框架眼鏡之產品。 
 
推廣及運用的價值： 
可更精準減低光學鏡片產生之像差，對人眼長期配帶產生不適之影響，可運用
到高單價客製化鏡片設計，幫助產業產品升級。 
 
 
※ 備註：依規定，精簡報告係可供國科會立即公開之資料，並以 4至 10 頁為
原則，如有圖片或照片請以附加檔案上傳，如因涉及專利、技術移
轉案或其他智慧財產權、影響公序良俗或政治社會安定等，而不宜
對外公開者，請勿將其列入精簡報告；原則上本會將公開精簡報告，
完整報告原則上不予公開。 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：顏志達 計畫編號：100-2622-E-150-032-CC3 
計畫名稱：高折射率材質隱形眼鏡之光學設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 1 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 2 50% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 1 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 1 1 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 104 104 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 2 50%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
